[MUSIC]
>> Scott: What is a directive?
A directive is really just a class.
We actually have three
types of directives.
You already know one.
You've used it so
many times already that's a component.
A component is a directive
with a template that's it.
We also have attribute directives,
which we also use to,
attribute directives are like directives
that change the host component or
the host element that it's on.
So the style, behavior, things like that.
So, ngClass would be one,
ngStyle would be actually a directive.
A structural directive actually
changes the component or
the host element's structure,
it's HTML content.
So NG4, ng-switch, things like that,
NGIf, those are all
structural directives because they change
how the element is rendered into the DOM.
So there are tons of built in attribute
and structural directives, but
we can also, of course, make our own.
And then we'll talk about
how to access the DOM and
do things you would normally do in jQuery.
>> Scott: So
a directive is responsible for
modifying a dynamic template.
A component is a specific
kind of directive,
we talked about this.
>> Scott: So
we're gonna breeze past these right here
because I think its better if I just get
into the code and show you this stuff,
so don't worry about this stuff.
So we're gonna talk about structural and
attribute directives.
We're gonna create a directive, and then
we're gonna create a structural directive.
So we're just gonna do that.
I'd rather just do that live than
this is what this is, cuz it's yeah.
So when we do create these directives
the way the accessing the DOM is using
the ElementRef.
The ElementRef is exactly
what it sounds like.
It is a reference to element
that the directive is hosted on,
so we will use that to
get access to it and
that object has a property called a native
element which gives us the native element.
So that is how we would do things.
So that pretty much takes you back to
Angular 1, where you had the element
object that was in the link function and
the compile function and what not.
And you can do things there.
That's what it's getting to.
>> Scott: So here's an example
of how you would access the DOM
inside of a attribute directive here.
It's a blink tag.
>> Speaker 2: Bring it
back.
>> Scott: So
we're gonna get into this a little more.
Okay, any questions?
I just wanted to get right into it.
So if you have any questions so far?
Otherwise, I just want to get into it.
Wanna see me mess up.
All right, so let's do it.
So first, what we're gonna do is,
we'll make some basic
attribute directives, then I'll
show you some of the built in ones,
and then we'll talk about some
structural directives, and
then I'll set you guys off on exercises.
Cool?
All right, so let's just make a basic
attribute directive, let's just make one,
I'm gonna call it what's a cool one?
Color.
What'd you call it?
>> Scott: [LAUGH]
All right.
>> Speaker 3: Got a K
>> Scott: Sorry, there we go.
There you go.
>> Speaker 4: [LAUGH]
>> Scott: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Wait no,
did you mean like MARQ?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah
>> Scott: Like a marquee.
>> Speaker 2: What you gotta do is you
gotta grab all of the elements in
the component and bunch them together.
So it's marquee and the funky bunch.
[LAUGH] Boom.
>> Scott: Let's just do that-
>> Speaker 2: I'll give $5 if you can do
that.
>> Speaker 5: [LAUGH]
>> Scott: Next time.
We'll just make a color one
that just changes the color
of text when you hover over it initially.
So the first thing we need to do is import
our dependencies, our modules here.
So, that's going to include
stuff from Angular 2, of course.
So, we have the directive that we have.
I´ve been using before and
that´s all we need for now.
So, now all we have to say
is it is the directive,
>> Scott: or am I get the fancy or
I got to save it first.
There we go.
I say it is not highlight.
So we use the directive.
Decorator here instead of component.
And again,
component is just a type of directive.
But this is like the foundation of it.
So like a component,
we can give it a selector.
In this case the selector
is an attribute so
I'm gonna use the CSS attribute selector
similar which is the square brackets.
And I'm gonna say it's
attribute is gonna be Colorer.
What's a better name?
>> Speaker 2: That's perfect,
just go with it.
>> Scott: [LAUGH] Let's do it, colorer.
>> Speaker 2: It sounds like
something somebody would release.
>> Scott: Yeah, colorer more.
All right.
So we got color and
that's pretty much all we're going
to need now for that directive.
And then what we're going to do is
we're going to just export this
>> Scott: Colorer, cool.
So we'll have that, and
then we need to access the dom.
So what we'll do is,
we need to import the element ref.
We'll come down here in our constructor.
>> Scott: And I'll just call this o.
Let's go to the ElementRef.
So now we have that.
>> Scott: And then just
right off the bat I'll just go ahead and
say _el.nativeElement.
So now we have the native dom element
here, which means I can access
the style property and
get the color property on that.
And I'll just say red.
And so it changed the color to red or
whatever listing is hosted on.
So now let's use this thing.
So let's just inject it into the app.
So now we're gonna app and
we just need to add it to the directives.
So we'll say colorer which also
means we need to import it.
>> Scott: No, is that not right?
>> Scott: I called it color,
okay.
>> Scott: So now we imported it so
now we can actually use it.
So what we need to do is just go, now
because it's at the app level component,
that means every child component and
including app now has access to
our directory that we just made
cuz it's at the top of the tree.
So we'll just go ahead and
go to app.html we'll use it here.
Let's find a piece of text.
>> Scott: Let's add it here to the span.
So now we can say,
>> Scott: Colorer.
Like that,
just like you would any attribute.
So, let's check it out.
>> Scott: There it is.
So, it's red.
>> Scott: All right?
Any questions on that?
So that's a basic attribute directive.
Let's just review that for one second.
Pretty simple here.
Directive, annotation,
a selector access to the native
element and then just dial it.